README.md, before:

![TruffleRuby logo](logo/png/truffleruby_logo_horizontal_medium_outlined.png)

TruffleRuby is the [GraalVM](http://graalvm.org/) high-performance implementation
of the [Ruby programming language](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/).

## Getting Started

TruffleRuby comes in two distributions:

* Standalone: This only contains TruffleRuby in the [Native configuration](#truffleruby-runtime-configurations), making it a smaller download.
* GraalVM: This includes support for other languages such as JavaScript, Python and R, and supports both the [Native and JVM configurations](#truffleruby-runtime-configurations).
  We recommend that you use a [Ruby manager](doc/user/ruby-managers.md#configuring-ruby-managers-for-the-full-graalvm-distribution) to use TruffleRuby inside GraalVM.

You can install either of those:

* Via your [Ruby manager/installer](doc/user/ruby-managers.md) (RVM, rbenv, chruby, asdf, ruby-build, ruby-install).
  We recommend trying TruffleRuby dev builds which contain the latest fixes and improvements (replace `VERSION` by `dev`).

Standalone:
```bash
RVM:    $ rvm install truffleruby
rbenv:  $ rbenv install truffleruby-VERSION
asdf:   $ asdf install ruby truffleruby-VERSION
chruby: $ ruby-install truffleruby
        $ ruby-build truffleruby-VERSION ~/.rubies/truffleruby-VERSION
```
GraalVM:
```bash
rbenv:  $ rbenv install truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
asdf:   $ asdf install ruby truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
chruby: $ ruby-install truffleruby-graalvm
        $ ruby-build truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION ~/.rubies/truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
```

* In CI with GitHub Actions, see [Testing TruffleRuby in CI](doc/user/standalone-distribution.md) for more details and other CIs.

```yaml
- uses: ruby/setup-ruby@v1
  with:
    ruby-version: truffleruby # or truffleruby-head, or truffleruby+graalvm or truffleruby+graalvm-head
```

* Via Docker.
  For Standalone see [official release images](https://github.com/graalvm/container/blob/master/truffleruby/README.md)
  and [nightly images](https://github.com/flavorjones/truffleruby/pkgs/container/truffleruby).
  For GraalVM see [official release images](https://github.com/graalvm/container/blob/master/community/README.md).

* Manually, by following the documentation: [Standalone](doc/user/standalone-distribution.md) and [GraalVM](doc/user/installing-graalvm.md).

You can use `gem` and `bundle` to install gems, as usual.

Please report any issues you might find on [GitHub](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues).

## Aim

TruffleRuby aims to:

* Run idiomatic Ruby code faster.
  * TruffleRuby is the [fastest Ruby implementation](https://eregon.me/blog/2022/01/06/benchmarking-cruby-mjit-yjit-jruby-truffleruby.html) for many CPU-intensive benchmarks.
* Run Ruby code in parallel.
  * TruffleRuby does not have a global interpreter lock and runs Ruby code in parallel.
* Support C extensions.
  * Many C extensions work out of the box, including database drivers.
* Add fast and low-overhead interoperability with languages like Java, JavaScript, Python, and R.
  * Provided by GraalVM, see the [Polyglot documentation](doc/user/polyglot.md).
* Provide new tooling, such as debuggers and monitoring, that works across languages.
  * Includes a profiler, debugger, VisualVM, and more. See the [Tools documentation](doc/user/tools.md).
* Provide all of the above while maintaining very high compatibility with the standard implementation of Ruby.

## TruffleRuby Runtime Configurations

There are two main runtime configurations of TruffleRuby, Native and JVM, which have different trade-offs.

| Configuration: | Native (`--native`, default) | JVM (`--jvm`) |
| ------------------ | ------------: | ------------: |
| Time to start TruffleRuby | about as fast as MRI startup | slower |
| Time to reach peak performance | faster | slower |
| Peak performance (also considering GC) | good | best |
| Java host interoperability | needs reflection configuration | just works |

To find out which runtime configuration is being used, run `ruby --version` on the command line,
or check the value of `RUBY_DESCRIPTION` or `TruffleRuby.native?` in Ruby code.
Runtime configurations are further detailed in [Deploying TruffleRuby](doc/user/deploying.md).

## System Compatibility

TruffleRuby is actively tested on the following systems:

* Oracle Linux 7, 8
* Ubuntu 16.04, 18.04, 20.04, 22.04 (all LTS)
* Fedora 35, 36
* macOS 10.14 (Mojave), 12 (Monterey)

Architectures:

* AMD64 (aka `x86_64`): Supported
* AArch64 (aka `arm64`): Supported on Linux (from 21.2) and on macOS (from 22.2)

You may find that TruffleRuby will not work if you severely restrict the
environment, for example, by unmounting system filesystems such as `/dev/shm`.

## Dependencies

* [make and gcc](doc/user/installing-llvm.md) for building C and C++ extensions
* [libssl](doc/user/installing-libssl.md) for the `openssl` C extension
* [zlib](doc/user/installing-zlib.md) for the `zlib` C extension

Without these dependencies, many libraries including RubyGems will not work.
TruffleRuby will try to print a nice error message if a dependency is missing, but this can only be done on a best effort basis.

You also need to set up a [UTF-8 locale](doc/user/utf8-locale.md) if not already done.

See the [contributor workflow](doc/contributor/workflow.md) document if you wish to build TruffleRuby from source.

## Current Status

We recommend that people trying TruffleRuby on their gems and applications [get in touch with us](#contact) for any help they might need.

TruffleRuby runs Rails and is compatible with many gems, including C extensions.
TruffleRuby is not 100% compatible with MRI 3.1 yet. Please [report](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues) any compatibility issues you might find.
TruffleRuby [passes around 97% of ruby/spec](https://eregon.me/rubyspec-stats/),
more than any other alternative Ruby implementation.

Regarding performance, TruffleRuby is [by far](https://eregon.me/blog/2022/01/06/benchmarking-cruby-mjit-yjit-jruby-truffleruby.html)
the fastest Ruby implementation on the [yjit-bench](https://github.com/Shopify/yjit-bench) benchmark suite which includes `railsbench`, etc.
To achieve this performance TruffleRuby needs a fair amount of warmup, as other advanced JIT compilers do.
If you find any performance issue, please see [this guide](doc/user/reporting-performance-problems.md).

## Releases

TruffleRuby has the same version, and is released at the same time as GraalVM.
There is a release every 3 months. See the [release roadmap](https://www.graalvm.org/release-notes/version-roadmap/).

## Migration from MRI

TruffleRuby should in most cases work as a drop-in replacement for MRI, but you
should read about our [compatibility](doc/user/compatibility.md).

## Migration from JRuby

For many use cases TruffleRuby should work as a drop-in replacement for JRuby.
However, our approach to integration with Java is different to JRuby so you
should read our [migration guide](doc/user/jruby-migration.md).

## Documentation

Extensive user documentation is available in [`doc/user`](doc/user).

See our [source code repository](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby) and
[contributor documentation](CONTRIBUTING.md) to contribute to TruffleRuby.
In particular, see the [contributor workflow](doc/contributor/workflow.md)
document for how to build and run TruffleRuby.

## Contact

The best way to get in touch with us is to join the `#truffleruby` channel on
[GraalVM Slack](https://www.graalvm.org/community/#community-support).
You can also Tweet to [@TruffleRuby](https://twitter.com/truffleruby), or email
_benoit.daloze@oracle.com_.

Please report security vulnerabilities via the process outlined in the [reporting vulnerabilities guide](https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html), rather than by something public such as a GitHub issue or a Gitter conversation.

## Mailing List

Announcements about GraalVM, including TruffleRuby, are made on the
[graal-dev](http://mail.openjdk.java.net/mailman/listinfo/graal-dev) mailing list.

## Authors

The main authors of TruffleRuby ordered by first contribution are:
Chris Seaton, Benoit Daloze, Kevin Menard, Petr Chalupa, Brandon Fish, Duncan MacGregor, Christian Wirth, Rafael França, Alan Wu, Nicolas Laurent, Carol Chen, Nikolay Sverchkov, Lillian Zhang, Tom Stuart, and Maple Ong.

## Security

See [SECURITY](SECURITY.md) for how to report security vulnerabilities to Oracle.
For known vulnerabilities in Ruby, please refer to the [known-cves](doc/user/known-cves.md) file.

## Licence

TruffleRuby is copyright (c) 2013-2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates, and is made
available to you under the terms of any one of the following three licenses:

* Eclipse Public License version 2.0, or
* GNU General Public License version 2, or
* GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1.

For further licensing information, see [LICENCE](LICENCE.md), [3rd_party_licenses](3rd_party_licenses.txt), and [doc/legal/legal](doc/legal/legal.md).

## Attribution

TruffleRuby includes infrastructure code from [JRuby](https://github.com/jruby/jruby) (e.g. parser, JCodings, Joni), core library code from the [Rubinius](https://github.com/rubinius/rubinius) project, as well as code from the standard implementation of Ruby, [MRI](https://github.com/ruby/ruby).

Commit message:

Document how long TruffleRuby releases are supported
* Fixes https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues/2816

README.md, after:

![TruffleRuby logo](logo/png/truffleruby_logo_horizontal_medium_outlined.png)

TruffleRuby is the [GraalVM](http://graalvm.org/) high-performance implementation
of the [Ruby programming language](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/).

## Getting Started

TruffleRuby comes in two distributions:

* Standalone: This only contains TruffleRuby in the [Native configuration](#truffleruby-runtime-configurations), making it a smaller download.
* GraalVM: This includes support for other languages such as JavaScript, Python and R, and supports both the [Native and JVM configurations](#truffleruby-runtime-configurations).
  We recommend that you use a [Ruby manager](doc/user/ruby-managers.md#configuring-ruby-managers-for-the-full-graalvm-distribution) to use TruffleRuby inside GraalVM.

You can install either of those:

* Via your [Ruby manager/installer](doc/user/ruby-managers.md) (RVM, rbenv, chruby, asdf, ruby-build, ruby-install).
  We recommend trying TruffleRuby dev builds which contain the latest fixes and improvements (replace `VERSION` by `dev`).

Standalone:
```bash
RVM:    $ rvm install truffleruby
rbenv:  $ rbenv install truffleruby-VERSION
asdf:   $ asdf install ruby truffleruby-VERSION
chruby: $ ruby-install truffleruby
        $ ruby-build truffleruby-VERSION ~/.rubies/truffleruby-VERSION
```
GraalVM:
```bash
rbenv:  $ rbenv install truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
asdf:   $ asdf install ruby truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
chruby: $ ruby-install truffleruby-graalvm
        $ ruby-build truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION ~/.rubies/truffleruby+graalvm-VERSION
```

* In CI with GitHub Actions, see [Testing TruffleRuby in CI](doc/user/standalone-distribution.md) for more details and other CIs.

```yaml
- uses: ruby/setup-ruby@v1
  with:
    ruby-version: truffleruby # or truffleruby-head, or truffleruby+graalvm or truffleruby+graalvm-head
```

* Via Docker.
  For Standalone see [official release images](https://github.com/graalvm/container/blob/master/truffleruby/README.md)
  and [nightly images](https://github.com/flavorjones/truffleruby/pkgs/container/truffleruby).
  For GraalVM see [official release images](https://github.com/graalvm/container/blob/master/community/README.md).

* Manually, by following the documentation: [Standalone](doc/user/standalone-distribution.md) and [GraalVM](doc/user/installing-graalvm.md).

You can use `gem` and `bundle` to install gems, as usual.

Please report any issues you might find on [GitHub](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues).

## Aim

TruffleRuby aims to:

* Run idiomatic Ruby code faster.
  * TruffleRuby is the [fastest Ruby implementation](https://eregon.me/blog/2022/01/06/benchmarking-cruby-mjit-yjit-jruby-truffleruby.html) for many CPU-intensive benchmarks.
* Run Ruby code in parallel.
  * TruffleRuby does not have a global interpreter lock and runs Ruby code in parallel.
* Support C extensions.
  * Many C extensions work out of the box, including database drivers.
* Add fast and low-overhead interoperability with languages like Java, JavaScript, Python, and R.
  * Provided by GraalVM, see the [Polyglot documentation](doc/user/polyglot.md).
* Provide new tooling, such as debuggers and monitoring, that works across languages.
  * Includes a profiler, debugger, VisualVM, and more. See the [Tools documentation](doc/user/tools.md).
* Provide all of the above while maintaining very high compatibility with the standard implementation of Ruby.

## TruffleRuby Runtime Configurations

There are two main runtime configurations of TruffleRuby, Native and JVM, which have different trade-offs.

| Configuration: | Native (`--native`, default) | JVM (`--jvm`) |
| ------------------ | ------------: | ------------: |
| Time to start TruffleRuby | about as fast as MRI startup | slower |
| Time to reach peak performance | faster | slower |
| Peak performance (also considering GC) | good | best |
| Java host interoperability | needs reflection configuration | just works |

To find out which runtime configuration is being used, run `ruby --version` on the command line,
or check the value of `RUBY_DESCRIPTION` or `TruffleRuby.native?` in Ruby code.
Runtime configurations are further detailed in [Deploying TruffleRuby](doc/user/deploying.md).

## System Compatibility

TruffleRuby is actively tested on the following systems:

* Oracle Linux 7, 8
* Ubuntu 16.04, 18.04, 20.04, 22.04 (all LTS)
* Fedora 35, 36
* macOS 10.14 (Mojave), 12 (Monterey)

Architectures:

* AMD64 (aka `x86_64`): Supported
* AArch64 (aka `arm64`): Supported on Linux (from 21.2) and on macOS (from 22.2)

You may find that TruffleRuby will not work if you severely restrict the
environment, for example, by unmounting system filesystems such as `/dev/shm`.

## Dependencies

* [make and gcc](doc/user/installing-llvm.md) for building C and C++ extensions
* [libssl](doc/user/installing-libssl.md) for the `openssl` C extension
* [zlib](doc/user/installing-zlib.md) for the `zlib` C extension

Without these dependencies, many libraries including RubyGems will not work.
TruffleRuby will try to print a nice error message if a dependency is missing, but this can only be done on a best effort basis.

You also need to set up a [UTF-8 locale](doc/user/utf8-locale.md) if not already done.

See the [contributor workflow](doc/contributor/workflow.md) document if you wish to build TruffleRuby from source.

## Current Status

We recommend that people trying TruffleRuby on their gems and applications [get in touch with us](#contact) for any help they might need.

TruffleRuby runs Rails and is compatible with many gems, including C extensions.
TruffleRuby is not 100% compatible with MRI 3.1 yet. Please [report](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues) any compatibility issues you might find.
TruffleRuby [passes around 97% of ruby/spec](https://eregon.me/rubyspec-stats/),
more than any other alternative Ruby implementation.

Regarding performance, TruffleRuby is [by far](https://eregon.me/blog/2022/01/06/benchmarking-cruby-mjit-yjit-jruby-truffleruby.html)
the fastest Ruby implementation on the [yjit-bench](https://github.com/Shopify/yjit-bench) benchmark suite which includes `railsbench`, etc.
To achieve this performance TruffleRuby needs a fair amount of warmup, as other advanced JIT compilers do.
If you find any performance issue, please see [this guide](doc/user/reporting-performance-problems.md).

## Releases

TruffleRuby has the same version and is released at the same time as GraalVM.
See the [release roadmap](https://www.graalvm.org/release-notes/version-roadmap/) for the release dates and information about how long releases are supported.
GraalVM CE releases are supported at most one year.
[Longer support](https://docs.oracle.com/en/graalvm/enterprise/22/docs/release-calendar/) is available for GraalVM EE.

## Migration from MRI

TruffleRuby should in most cases work as a drop-in replacement for MRI, but you
should read about our [compatibility](doc/user/compatibility.md).

## Migration from JRuby

For many use cases TruffleRuby should work as a drop-in replacement for JRuby.
However, our approach to integration with Java is different to JRuby so you
should read our [migration guide](doc/user/jruby-migration.md).

## Documentation

Extensive user documentation is available in [`doc/user`](doc/user).

See our [source code repository](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby) and
[contributor documentation](CONTRIBUTING.md) to contribute to TruffleRuby.
In particular, see the [contributor workflow](doc/contributor/workflow.md)
document for how to build and run TruffleRuby.

## Contact

The best way to get in touch with us is to join the `#truffleruby` channel on
[GraalVM Slack](https://www.graalvm.org/community/#community-support).
You can also Tweet to [@TruffleRuby](https://twitter.com/truffleruby), or email
_benoit.daloze@oracle.com_.

Please report security vulnerabilities via the process outlined in the [reporting vulnerabilities guide](https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html), rather than by something public such as a GitHub issue or a Gitter conversation.

## Mailing List

Announcements about GraalVM, including TruffleRuby, are made on the
[graal-dev](http://mail.openjdk.java.net/mailman/listinfo/graal-dev) mailing list.

## Authors

The main authors of TruffleRuby ordered by first contribution are:
Chris Seaton, Benoit Daloze, Kevin Menard, Petr Chalupa, Brandon Fish, Duncan MacGregor, Christian Wirth, Rafael França, Alan Wu, Nicolas Laurent, Carol Chen, Nikolay Sverchkov, Lillian Zhang, Tom Stuart, and Maple Ong.

## Security

See [SECURITY](SECURITY.md) for how to report security vulnerabilities to Oracle.
For known vulnerabilities in Ruby, please refer to the [known-cves](doc/user/known-cves.md) file.

## Licence

TruffleRuby is copyright (c) 2013-2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates, and is made
available to you under the terms of any one of the following three licenses:

* Eclipse Public License version 2.0, or
* GNU General Public License version 2, or
* GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1.

For further licensing information, see [LICENCE](LICENCE.md), [3rd_party_licenses](3rd_party_licenses.txt), and [doc/legal/legal](doc/legal/legal.md).

## Attribution

TruffleRuby includes infrastructure code from [JRuby](https://github.com/jruby/jruby) (e.g. parser, JCodings, Joni), core library code from the [Rubinius](https://github.com/rubinius/rubinius) project, as well as code from the standard implementation of Ruby, [MRI](https://github.com/ruby/ruby).
