doc/contributor/mri-tests.md, before:

# MRI Tests

MRI tests are located in the `test/mri` directory.

## Running

MRI tests are run using the `jt` tool. By default these commands will exclude
running tests that are ignored using test exclude files in the
`test/mri/excludes_truffle` directory (more exclude details below).

### Run test suite

The `jt test mri` command is used to run all MRI test files specified in the
`test/mri_truffle.index` file.

### Run a single test

A single MRI test can be run using the command `jt test mri ruby/test_time.rb`.

## Excluding tests 

Test excludes are created in the `test/mri/excludes_truffle` directory using the
test's class name as the file name.

For example the `TestTime` class found in `test/mri/ruby/test_time.rb` has a
corresponding exclude file: `test/mri/excludes_truffle/TestTime.rb`.

For a nested test class structure like `TestPrime::TestInteger` in
`test_prime.rb`, the exclude directory for `TestInteger` is created in a
`TestPrime` sub-directory.

The lines in exclude file appear like this:

```ruby
exclude :test_asctime, "needs investigation"
exclude :test_at, "needs investigation"
```

Each line starts with the `exclude` method followed by two arguments: first the
test method name to exclude, and then a comment describing the reason for the
exclude.

There is no tool currently to assist in tagging/untagging tests so this is
currently done by manually adding/removing the exclude lines from the test
exclude files.

Commit message:

Switch MRI tests from a list of includes, to a list of excludes
This is so that files aren't missed - they're included by default - and
to switch the attitude from a small list of things we do run, to a big
list of things we don't run.

doc/contributor/mri-tests.md, after:

# MRI Tests

MRI tests are located in the `test/mri` directory.

## Running

MRI tests are run using the `jt` tool. By default these commands will exclude
running tests that are ignored using test exclude files in the
`test/mri/excludes_truffle` directory (more exclude details below).

### Run test suite

The `jt test mri` command is used to run all MRI test files that can be run
normally. `--openssl` runs those using `openssl` and needs to be run with
`--sulong`.

### Run a single test

A single MRI test can be run using the command `jt test mri ruby/test_time.rb`.

## Excluding tests 

Whole files are excluded in `test/mri_standard.exclude` and
`test/mri_openssl.exclude`.

Individual test excludes are created in the `test/mri/excludes_truffle`
directory using the test's class name as the file name.

For example the `TestTime` class found in `test/mri/ruby/test_time.rb` has a
corresponding exclude file: `test/mri/excludes_truffle/TestTime.rb`.

For a nested test class structure like `TestPrime::TestInteger` in
`test_prime.rb`, the exclude directory for `TestInteger` is created in a
`TestPrime` sub-directory.

The lines in exclude file appear like this:

```ruby
exclude :test_asctime, "needs investigation"
exclude :test_at, "needs investigation"
```

Each line starts with the `exclude` method followed by two arguments: first the
test method name to exclude, and then a comment describing the reason for the
exclude.

There is no tool currently to assist in tagging/untagging tests so this is
currently done by manually adding/removing the exclude lines from the test
exclude files.
